docs/cusip-tool.md, before:

# CUSIP Tool

`cusip-tool` reads potential CUSIPs from stdin, one per line, and parses them. It will panic
if any fail to parse. This can be used as a simple bulk test of a file of purported CUSIPs to
ensure there are no malformed entries present.

As part of the `Cusip` type's implementation validation, this tool was run on a file of 1,591,249
unique CUSIPs produced by processing a file mapping LEIs to ISINs obtained from GLEIF. The
[GLEIF file](https://www.gleif.org/en/lei-data/lei-mapping/download-isin-to-lei-relationship-files)
is very large (the version from 2021-02-09 was about 170MB). Here are a few example records for
US ISINS:

```sh
grep ',US' ISIN_LEI_20210209.csv | head
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US3137A3KN83
254900EDYO1UYWLWP146,US12613N2027
549300DRQQI75D2JP341,US05531GQN42
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US31394GAX16
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US3137ASGH19
G5GSEF7VJP5I7OUK5573,US06741RAP64
549300LR1ZETOWYE9Z89,US084601MZ36
8I5DZWZKVSZI1NUHU748,US46636JTK96
ANGGYXNX0JLX3X63JN86,US22546ESF24
784F5XWPLTWKTBV3E584,US38143USC61
```

You can use a command like this to subset just the US ISINs and convert them to putative CUSIPs:

```sh
grep ',US' ISIN_LEI_20210209.csv \
  | sed -e 's/^.*,US//' \
  | sed -e 's/.$//' \
  | sort | uniq | gzip -9 \
  > cusips-us.txt.gz
```

This file was still about 4.2MB for the version tested.

Having produced the file, it is now possible to run it through this tool. From the source
directory of this crate, you can run:

```sh
gzcat cusips-us.txt.gz | tools/cusip-tool.sc
```

And, output will be something like this:

```text
Read 1591249 values; 1591249 were valid CUSIPs and 0 were not.
```

If no bad values were found, the tool will exit with zero status, else non-zero.


## Fix mode

If you run with argument `--fix`, then any input CUSIPs that are only wrong due to incorrect
_Check Digit_ will be fixed. In this mode, each good or fixable input CUSIP is printed
to standard output.

Commit message:

Fix reference to program name, and add the directory name

docs/cusip-tool.md, after:

# CUSIP Tool

`cusip-tool.sc` (in the _tools_ directory) reads potential CUSIPs from stdin,
one per line, and parses them. It will panic if any fail to parse. This can be
used as a simple bulk test of a file of purported CUSIPs to ensure there are no
malformed entries present.

As part of the `Cusip` type's implementation validation, this tool was run on a file of 1,591,249
unique CUSIPs produced by processing a file mapping LEIs to ISINs obtained from GLEIF. The
[GLEIF file](https://www.gleif.org/en/lei-data/lei-mapping/download-isin-to-lei-relationship-files)
is very large (the version from 2021-02-09 was about 170MB). Here are a few example records for
US ISINS:

```sh
grep ',US' ISIN_LEI_20210209.csv | head
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US3137A3KN83
254900EDYO1UYWLWP146,US12613N2027
549300DRQQI75D2JP341,US05531GQN42
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US31394GAX16
S6XOOCT0IEG5ABCC6L87,US3137ASGH19
G5GSEF7VJP5I7OUK5573,US06741RAP64
549300LR1ZETOWYE9Z89,US084601MZ36
8I5DZWZKVSZI1NUHU748,US46636JTK96
ANGGYXNX0JLX3X63JN86,US22546ESF24
784F5XWPLTWKTBV3E584,US38143USC61
```

You can use a command like this to subset just the US ISINs and convert them to putative CUSIPs:

```sh
grep ',US' ISIN_LEI_20210209.csv \
  | sed -e 's/^.*,US//' \
  | sed -e 's/.$//' \
  | sort | uniq | gzip -9 \
  > cusips-us.txt.gz
```

This file was still about 4.2MB for the version tested.

Having produced the file, it is now possible to run it through this tool. From the source
directory of this crate, you can run:

```sh
gzcat cusips-us.txt.gz | tools/cusip-tool.sc
```

And, output will be something like this:

```text
Read 1591249 values; 1591249 were valid CUSIPs and 0 were not.
```

If no bad values were found, the tool will exit with zero status, else non-zero.


## Fix mode

If you run with argument `--fix`, then any input CUSIPs that are only wrong due to incorrect
_Check Digit_ will be fixed. In this mode, each good or fixable input CUSIP is printed
to standard output.
